yeah I will just present an overview of
recent project reflections and concerns
regarding mainly the idea of
technological innovation taken as a sort
of propaganda or as a sort of dominant
ideology in the making of our current
society and a value systems and so this
innovation is a is a group we started
like four or five years ago basically we
we are through artworks but also through
publications festivals and different
gathering events we will try to
investigate this specific angle so
basically we all come from a kind of a
media art background and at some point
we kind of figured out that as artists
as makers as let's say as proxy of
validation of the technological
artifacts that you will stage in an
exhibition we had to develop a form of
specific consciousness and specific
positions posture position toward the
technological devices that we were using
in the sense that in the larger
ecosystem in the larger dynamic of
technological innovation media arts
becomes a sort of an extended Public
Relation a cog in the in this system in
this larger system of public relations
so for instance you can see most of the
art sounds coming from companies and
most of the artists in residence coming
from companies depend on the public
relation division for instance right and
actually artists are of a strong
position in the society as by staging
and dramatizing
technology our technological artifacts
they are becoming actor in a larger
process of dissemination validation
popularization of those same artifacts
so it became clear to us that that was a
point that we wanted to investigate and
we we learn worried anymore
to just use stage and validate those
artifacts and some propagates this
positivist approach toward technological
innovation and more largely this
technology or ilysm which is somehow
validated through those technologies so
those practices are developed through
the depending on the topic and the
angles it can be developed through
festivals and group exhibitions also
through publications so I will come back
to the pirate exhibited here and yeah
basically I will just make a focus to so
that you see that the development a
little bit it started with an
exploration of what we could call black
box technologies and the idea that the
technology were using on a daily basis
are acting and shaping or our views our
types operation in our system of values
and we hardly understand them and hardly
even experience them from the inner
walking and in their specific dynamics
system logic and the the ideas through
those early works were ready to
investigate those spaces of black boxes
and to find ways ready
direct and material ways to materialize
those black boxes so this first project
the pirate cinema
basically you could see it as a kind of
monitoring room a surveillance room it's
using a sort of weakness by design of
the BitTorrent protocol which is that's
any user on the network needs to know
the IP address of the user it's
exchanging with so we've been using this
feature which is what has been used for
15 years by all the surveillance
companies that were easier filling
copyright infringement lawsuit or
universities that we're studying peer to
peer so we used exactly the same feature
but to reveal the dynamics and the
materiality of those exchanges
[Music]
you're
[Applause]
[Music]
what you can see here is the real-time
process of users basically we set it up
that synchronize its that's every day
with the top 100 most downloaded
torrents based on the list from The
Pirate Bay
and this server becomes node but a very
accessible node on the network and it's
very likely that some of your packets
will go through this node so what you
see is the process of the torrent
peer-to-peer network through one and you
have also the IP address and and
basically while developing and
presenting this project we've been
collecting so many stories anecdotes
historical facts and artifacts around
the practices of media piracy all over
the world that we decided to compile it
through a sort of book which is not an
academic book more like maybe a book
looking at media piracy from the
perspective of the practices the
strategies and the tactics developed so
basically the idea on that is developed
through the book is really this idea of
what we call the piracy of necessity
it's when theoretical practices are
developed because the original content
is either hard to access or unavailable
for political religious reasons for
geography geographical reasons
economical reasons and so on so this
book compiled both historical anecdotes
and also contemporary practices all over
the globe
that's kind of relate to the production
of content
and to the consummation of contents in
different ways today I want to focus
more precisely on the idea of techno
critiques because that's more the sort
of black boxes that we are exploring at
the moment with the collective so in
French techno critic has maybe a
slightly different sense but it's maybe
not that far from the American sense
this idea of a critical theory that will
be applied to the field of technological
changes but more clearly that will
investigate not only the economical or
positivist bias but also the long-term
and a global scale effects of it and
perhaps also the different geographical
perception and repercussions of it so
the first project I'd like to present in
this mode press enter.this move Asia
North III gray area Google slides this
acknowledgment of powerlessness before
the upsurge of unexpected catastrophic
events forces us to reverse the usual
trend which exposes us to accidents and
inaugurate a new kind of music G and
music Rafi one which consists in
exposing or exhibiting the accident all
accidents from the most commonplace to
the most tragic from natural
catastrophes to industrial and
scientific disasters including also the
kind that is too often neglected the
happy accident the stroke of luck the
kuda founder or even the coup de Grasse
pauls Aurelio so this first project I
will present somehow resonates very well
with this quote the idea was ready to
think about what will be a tactic to
somehow challenge our conference the
clear positive is by us that we can have
today toward technological innovation so
somehow we wanted to start collectively
to compile and assemble what would be a
museum focusing space
on failures on disasters on catastrophes
on bugs and everything that is under
represented in the dominant discourse is
around technology so we started to
develop it through workshops
performative events database and the
completion of stories and anecdotes so
it's an ongoing project this is the
groundbreaking ceremony where we did
this symbolic ritual this is one early
form of this collective contribution so
each of the Rohrer is like a virtual
floor floor the floor our content only
on negative order from minus 1 to minus
X so so far you have like one floor
about intentional failures the second
underground floor is about friction
dystopias and human aspirations the
third floor is about risk speculative
risk and disasters and the floor number
four is about unexpected and unplanned
outcomes so here you can see the
database and the kind of anecdotes that
could be compiled there this one I like
it specifically because in every
futurist talk coming from the
transhumanist side or even from most of
the really positivist Silicon Valley
told you you will at some points base
your your discourse on this law and this
law is not allowed it's just
self-fulfilling sort of prophecy where
some people from Intel decided at some
point that that's the way that the
market will be regulated so that that
can be the kind of tactical stories that
can be exposed and somehow challenged
through such a museum this next piece is
a here is a video piece but it's
actually a KML trajectory
it's a trajectory through Google Google
Earth and we're interested in all most
of the technology we use daily or direct
directly coming from the military and we
started to investigate a series of
project where we will come in hounds or
bring some kind of ghost from the past
within the contemporary technologies so
in this example we brought the ghost
from the past of satellite imagery and
we recreated some rockets missile
launches a few that were important
historically from the first to the first
SCAD this is the one we are looking at
now Scott sent from Kuwait Saudi Arabia
and the idea was really to through the
sleek interface of the contemporary
tools bring back the memory of where
those military technology came from
so it's reproduced in terms of dynamic
speed position ballistic and moment in
the day basically so it's like if camera
will have been on board at the time
this next project that is inside the
exhibition here is a blacklist so we we
got interested in how how do we somehow
decide what should be visible or not on
the internet and we decides what those
forbidden sites or restricted sites are
so we started to investigate that and
found huge list of providers of those
blacklist so we started to basically
purchase some of those subscriptions and
looked into those listings we compiled
that in a huge database so basically you
can find many companies providing that
it's basically list that a system admin
can use and then they will pick the
categories that they decide to block or
to leave open here you can see the main
categories that are in use so obviously
porn piracy pharmacy terrorism and so on
but you can be also a surprise to see
for instance feminism which is clearly
part of the rules of this market where
if enough of your clients requests for a
category to be blocked it can be blocked
so it ended up in this kind of physical
transposition in into a non single
encyclopedia that is kind of
materialization of the database in a way
you can browse through it you can see it
as a as a wall so it's a few millions of
websites each book is a 666 pages and
there are certain there are certain
books
- yep and the last project so we're
talking about this idea of Eden sites
and on the other side of the story you
have somehow the tip of the iceberg so
what we could name hyper connection and
the way that social media and filter
bubble and all these effects of hyper
connection bringing to our intellect and
were ability to to produce ideas and we
were kind of surprised on all many
project lately we're following the same
trends and somehow taking similar shapes
and producing the same systems of value
in a way and we thought that at some
extent it could be characterized and
automatized so we started basically to
develop a system that will look at the
main trends and the main concerns on
social media and directly short-circuits
the ability of those kind of automated
artist reactions the bots will react in
zero time to those new concerns and
produce new potential artistic
imaginaries so it's a kind of a parody
but it's also somehow a way to extend
our imagination or art imaginaries a
little bit outside of the part of the
ideal space that is usually occupied by
artists so it works in a quite of a
simple way we we subscribe at the but to
android of news sources so that's what
what you can see on the left the but
then looks for recurrent keywords and
what is supposed to be meaningful
in the titles and then based on those
keywords he tries to categorize them as
places names verbs and pick potential
recipe to produce new artistic concepts
all of it
so this boat has been active on Twitter
since few years and is now online as a
website where artists can are free to
use and interpret those concepts yeah I
think I'm pretty much done
[Applause]